TTYG-178 Improve documentation (#51)
Ontotext-AD/graphrag-eval: docs/input.md

# Inputs

The input to the evaluator consists of two datasets of corresponding entries:

> 1. Reference dataset: questions and their reference answers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Reference dataset: questions, their reference answers and optionally the reference steps required for responding the question in terms of context chunks and tool calls (see [§Steps](https://github.com/Ontotext-AD/graphrag-eval/blob/main/docs/steps.md))
```

1. Target reponses: the agent's answers and optionally executed steps

## Reference Q&A data

A reference dataset is a list of question "template" dicts, each of which contains:

- `template_id`: Unique template identifier, copied to the evaluation output
- `questions`: A list of questions derived from this template, where each includes:

>   - `id`: Unique question identifier, matched to actual answer and copied to the evaluation output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `id`: Unique question identifier, used to match the corresponding actual answer by id. It is copied to the evaluation output
```

  - `question_text`: The natural language query passed to the LLM
  - `reference_answer`: (optional) The expected answer to the question

>   - `reference_steps`: (optional) A list of expected steps grouped by expected order of execution. All steps in a group can be executed in any order relative to each other, but after all steps in the previous group and before all steps in the next group. Each reference step dict can include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `reference_steps`: (optional) A list of expected steps grouped by expected order of execution ([§ Steps score](https://github.com/Ontotext-AD/graphrag-eval/blob/main/docs/steps.md#steps-score)). All steps in a group can be executed in any order relative to each other, but after all steps in the previous group and before all steps in the next group. Each reference step dict can include:
```

    - `name`: The name of the step (e.g., `sparql_query`)
    - `args` (optional dict): Arguments to a tool used in the step. Examples:
      - SPARQL: keys such as `query`
      - Retrieval: tool-specific arguments
      - Time-series: keys such as `mrid`, `limit`
      - Data points: keys such as `external_id`, `granularity`, `aggregates`, `start`, `end`, `limit`
    - `output` (string): Expected output. For steps that compare structured results, provide a JSON-encoded string of the structure (e.g., SPARQL JSON results, retrieval contexts).
    - `output_media_type`: (optional, one of: missing, `application/sparql-results+json`, `application/json`) Controls how `output` is parsed and compared to actual output
    - `ordered`: (optional; default `false`) For SPARQL `SELECT` steps, whether row order matters. `true`: the actual result rows must be in the same order; `false`: result rows are matched as a set. Ignored for other step types.
    - `required_columns`: (optional list) For SPARQL `SELECT` steps, binding names required for query results that must match

>     - `ignore_duplicates`: (optional list, defaults to `true`) For SPARQL `SELECT` results, whether duplicate rows are ignored when comparing actual vs. reference.

Reviewer: Why 'optional list', if it is a list how can it take a default value 'true'?

[Example reference dataset](https://github.com/Ontotext-AD/graphrag-eval/blob/main/docs/examples/reference.yaml) with two templates and associated questions and steps.

> ## Target responses to evaluate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Actual answers to evaluate
```

The target data is a dict of `question_id` to a response dict. Each response dict contains:

> - `question_id`: (required) Must equal `id` from the reference question; copied to the output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `question_id`: (required) Used to match the corresponding reference question by `id`; copied to the output
```

> - `actual_answer` (optional) Enables `answer_relevance` and, if `reference_answer` exists and LLM is configured, answer correctness metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `actual_answer` (optional) Enables `answer_relevance` and, if `reference_answer` exists and LLM is configured ([§ Configuration](https://github.com/Ontotext-AD/graphrag-eval/blob/main/docs/config.md)), answer correctness metrics
```

    - Data points (`name == "retrieve_data_points"`): typically includes `external_id`, `granularity`, `aggregates`, `start`, `end`, `limit`.
  - `output` (string): The actual output from the step
    - Retrieval: a JSON array of context objects. Each object should contain an `id` (required for ID-based recall@k). If you want text-based retrieval metrics (LLM-backed) to run, include the context text as well (e.g., `{"id": "...", "text": "..."}`).
    - SPARQL: a JSON object in SPARQL Results JSON format for `SELECT` or `ASK`.
  - `execution_timestamp`: Required by `retrieve_data_points` step comparison. 
  - `status` (optional): Required value `"success"` for matching and evaluating the step.
  - `error` (optional): Marks an agent internal error for this question. 
  - `input_tokens`, `output_tokens`, `total_tokens`, `elapsed_sec` (numbers, optional): copied to the output and included in aggregates compyted by function `aggregate_metrics()` ([§ Output](https://github.com/Ontotext-AD/graphrag-eval/blob/main/docs/examples/output.md)). Useful for analyzing your agent.

[Example actual answers dataset](https://github.com/Ontotext-AD/graphrag-eval/blob/main/docs/examples/target.json).

> ## Notes and tips

Reviewer: The remaining part can be deleted. A more generic navigation between the files is necessary.

> - For matching `steps_score`, see [Steps](https://github.com/Ontotext-AD/graphrag-eval/blob/main/docs/steps.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For matching `steps_score`, see [§Steps](https://github.com/Ontotext-AD/graphrag-eval/blob/main/docs/steps.md).
```

  - `id`: unique step identifier. Used to annotate matched reference steps with `matches`.
  - `name`: Step type, used to match to a reference step for evaluation
  - `args` (optional dict): Arguments to a tool used in the step. Required for certain comparisons.
    - Retrieval steps (`name == "retrieval"`): must include `k` (the cutoff) so that ID-based recall@k can be computed against reference retrieval contexts.
    - Time series (`name == "retrieve_time_series"`): typically includes `mrid`, `limit`.
    - Data points (`name == "retrieve_data_points"`): typically includes `external_id`, `granularity`, `aggregates`, `start`, `end`, `limit`.
  - `output` (string): The actual output from the step
    - Retrieval: a JSON array of context objects. Each object should contain an `id` (required for ID-based recall@k). If you want text-based retrieval metrics (LLM-backed) to run, include the context text as well (e.g., `{"id": "...", "text": "..."}`).
    - SPARQL: a JSON object in SPARQL Results JSON format for `SELECT` or `ASK`.
  - `execution_timestamp`: Required for `retrieve_data_points` step comparison; used as the anchor for relative `start`/`end` times

>   - `status` (optional): Required with value `"success"` for matching and the step.

Reviewer 2: This description is not ok IMO, `and the step` ?

Author: Can you be more specific?

Reviewer 2: I don't understand it. Specifically the second part `and the step`. What I understand is that the field is optional, but also required for matching.

Author: Fixed.

Also changed remaining occurrences to "query", "reference data" or "reference dataset" (of templates containing "reference item"s), "response record".

  such as a SPARQL query)
- `output`: The expected output from the step.
- `output_media_type`: (optional, missing or one of
  `application/sparql-results+json`, `application/json`) Indicates how the
  output of a step must be processed
- `ordered`: (optional, defaults to `false`) For SPARQL query results, whether
  results order matters. `true` means that the actual result rows must be
  ordered as the reference result; `false` means that result rows are matched
  as a set.
- `required_columns`: (optional) - required only for SPARQL query results; list
  of binding names, which are required for SPARQL query results to match
- `ignore_duplicates`: (optional, defaults to `true`) For SPARQL query results,
  whether duplicate binding values in the expected or in the actual results
  should be ignored for the comparison.

### Example
Here is a minimal but realistic
[example Q&A dataset reference data](examples/reference-data.yaml), showing
two templates with associated questions and steps.

## Target responses to evaluate

To evaluate a successful response by the question-answering system to a
question, the response should be formatted as in this 

> [sxample](examples/target-data.json).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[example](examples/target-data.json).
```

Reviewer 2: Please, use IDE and spell checker or something .... My IDE tells me the spell check, grammar errors and also the dead links
